# BMediaTheme

A {cpp:class}`BMediaTheme` is an object that, given a
{cpp:class}`BParameterWeb`, can create a {cpp:class}`BView` containing all
the controls needed to configure the {cpp:class}`BControllable` node
represented by the {cpp:class}`BParameterWeb`. You can then add the
returned {cpp:class}`BView` to a window so the user can configure the node
to their liking.

The resulting {cpp:class}`BView` contains not only the controls for
configuring the parameters available in the node, but also indicates the
data flow path through the node.

The BeOS includes the standard theme, which provides the system default
look to media controls, as seen in the Audio and Video preference
applications beginning with Release 4.

If you want to change the look of media controls within the BeOS, you can
write your own {cpp:class}`BMediaTheme` and install it as the default
system theme by calling {cpp:func}`SetPreferredTheme()
<BMediaTheme::SetPreferredTheme>`. If you want to write a new theme and
provide the ability for the user to enable it as the new system theme,
you'll need to write an application that calls
{cpp:func}`SetPreferredTheme() <BMediaTheme::SetPreferredTheme>`.

If you want to return to the default system theme, you should call
`SetPreferredTheme(NULL)`. Make sure you don't have any theme views
instantiated in your application when you do so.

## Installing a Theme Add-on

Theme add-ons belong at /boot/home/config/add-ons/media/themes. They can
have any name you like.

:::{admonition} Warning
:class: warning
At this time, theme add-on support has not been sufficiently tested and
may or may not work. If you have problems with it, please file a bug report
at http://bebugs.be.com.
:::
